All keyboards use microcontrollers, however they only come into discussion in the ergo side of the hobby, because all standard PCBs come with an SMD microcontroller already on it, whereas the ergo board users often have to find and solder their own controllers for their boards. 

Normally for ergo boards, the controllers come in the form of breakout boards with the contrller chip, a header, a form of USB port to connect to the computer, and a number of other smaller chips to handle other aspects of its funtionality.

The microcontroller on a board handles the key matrix and discerning which keys are being pressed at any given time, I go into more detail about that on the PCB matrices page.

There are 2 types of controller boards used for boards: bluetooth and non-bluetooth. The former is less common and less popular as you are limited to the ZMK or KMK firmware languages, so no QMK (the most popular firmware language). A common bluetooth board is the nice!nano board, however it is the most expensive commonly used controller board, another factor that limits the availability of bluetooth ergo boards. Wired, non-bluetooth boards are much more common for the inverse of the reasons stated above: they are more widely available, have more firmware support, and are cheaper then their wireless counterparts. Common wired boards are: the pro micro, and the elite-C, however there are a large number of less popular controller boards that use the pro micro 'footprint' (the layout the pinout on the header uses), any board's pinout can usually be found in the 'documents' tab of the product page of the store you are buying from. The reason all boards, wirless or otherwise, have a form of female usbc port is to flash the firmware.