A common misconception is that a keyboard's layout is the same as its size, but that's wrong: sizes are dictated by the number of keys the board has, and the layout is the way those keys are arranged.

The reason layouts and sizes are used interchangeably in the standard keyboard community is because all standard sizes come in 1 layout. This differs within the ergo board community tho because there is an almost infinite number of 30 and 40% layouts.

The most common example of this is ANSI vs ISO layouts. This refers to the arrangement of the enter key and its surrounding keys. The ANSI layout consists of an enter key that stays in 1 row, with 2 1U (sometimes a 1.25/1.5 and 1U depending on the board) keys above it for the hash and tilde keys. ISO consists of an enter key that spans 2 rows and is slightly thinner, and has 2 1U keys to the left of it for the hash and tilde keys. ANSI is preferred in the community, partly for the aesthetics, as it looks better having all keys conatined in their rows rather than spread out, and also for the ease of use, as the enter key is closer to your finger with the ANSI layout.

Another example of this is every keyboard ever in the ergo community. For starters, the 40% layout has the planck layout, reviung layout, and lots of slightly different split layouts like the corne and the cantor. Each of these is very different, yet all fall within the 40% layout bracket. The same can be said for the 30% layouts, which don't have names but are based off the organisation of the keys, examples of which are the 5x3+3 boards like the gergoplex, and the 5x3+2 boards like the ferris series, which have a surprisingly different feel. Also within the 30% bracket are monoblock boards such as the Crowboard and Hummingbird boards. You can read more about different *ergo* boards and layouts on the 'ErgoDox to Ginny' page.

