### Column stagger
Column stagger or 'columnar' layouts are similar to ortholinear layouts in that they remove the row stagger, allowing for the user's fingers to more comfortably extend and retract to reach the keys. They differ from ortho layouts in that the columns are offset from each other in varying degrees (dependant on the board). This is done, yet again, for ergonomic reasons. If you look at your fingers next to each other, your middle finger will be the longest with the others getting shorter as they move further out. It then seems illogical to have all of the fingers pressing keys that are lined up horizontally; collumnar layouts aim to fix this.
The degree to which the columns are staggered is described as how 'aggresive' or 'minimal' the stagger is, so a board like the ferris sweep has a very aggressive pinky stagger, whereas a board like the gergoplex has very minimal pinky stagger.

### Splay
Finger splay on a board refers to how aligned the rows are to each other. A board with no splay means that all of the columns are packed together as closely as possible horizontally, whereas a board with a large splay will have the columns more spread out and often aligned at different angles. This is done to suit the ergonomics of the hand, as for some people, their pinky finger extends in a very curved manner meaning that it can sometimes be uncomfortable to reach the further keys, or cause too much unnecessary hand movement. 
Splay may seem similar to row stagger, but is in fact very different. Row stagger is the offset of rows from each other causing an increase in distance from key to key, whereas splay is the offset from column to column, allowing the board to more comfortably fit the hand. 