It may seem daunting at first moving to a board with fewer keys than you think you will need, however it is actually very reasonable and understandable.

To allow for more characters to be inputted than keys, a system called layering is used. It is achieved by having keys that allow you to jump between layers, each of which have different characters for a key in relation to another layer. You are probably using an example of layering right now: the shift key. when the shift key isn't being pressed, all of your keys are standad, whereas when you hold the shift key, all of the alpha keys become capitalised and all of the number keys and special character keys are symbols. You have held done a key to allow you to access a whole new set of possible characters. If you think about it, wihtout a shift key, keyboards would have to be at least twice as large.
Layering also comes in a less obvious but still well used way. Some 60% boards use the 4 bottom right keys as modifiers when held, but arrow keys when tapped. This is a specific function on some boards called 'tapdance', where you can have different functions when the key is tapped or held, which is actually considered to be the usage of a different layer.

The usage of layers does come with certain drawbacks, the main being trying to remember where all of the symbols are, and the challenge of pressing combinations with keys on different layers. The former can be solved with  a simple cheat sheet stuck to the bottom of your monitor, and the latter can be solved throuigh a slightly crude solution: note down all of the combintaions you need but can't access, and then create a layer in your *keymap* and put them all on there.

Macros are a sort of subsection of fewer key layouts in that they allow you to do things that you might not otherwise be able to do with a keyboard. They are different, however, in that they mostly speed up workflows or common combinations of key presses. 
