### Why?
Keyboard cables seem insignificant to many, as why would someone want to spend $50 on a custom multicoloured coiled cable, well its for the aesthetics, of course. There are many options when getting a cable for a board, listed below with their benefits and drawbacks. It is important to know that when a cable is described as a USB-C cable or Micro-UB cable, this refers to the end that is plugged into the board, almost all cables will have a USB type A end that can be plugged into the motherboard of your PC. It is also important to note that some boards (often if they are large or have heavy RGB) if being plugged into a USB hub, will need the hub to be powered to function correctly.

### Interfaces
There are 3 main types of interface (shape of the end) for cables. Micro USB, mini-USB, and USB-C. They are all similar in that they have a male and a female (male on the cable and female on the board) and they allow a connection between the board and the PC without using bluetooth. However they differ in use ad shape, so it is important to get the right interface (the board should specify what cable it takes). Micro USB cables are fairly uncommon in keyboards because they can be fragile and only work 1 way around, but mostly because they are quite outdated. Mini-USB cables are even less common than Micro USB cables, though they have a dedicated userbase in the *ergo* community, as a number of prebuilt boards use them (like the gergoplex and the ginny). The most common cable interface is USB-C, as it is up to date, strong, and can go in both ways around. 

### Appearance
Cables are often coloured to match the steup they are in, unsurprisingly, so creating aesthetically pleasing cables is an area of high demand in the userbase of mech-boards. There are 2 'types' of cable: straight and coiled. Straight cables are primarily chosen to be minimal and out of the way, whereas coiled cables are chosen to be make a statement and be aesthetic. A common feature of cables chosen for aesthetics are aviators. These are links between two halves of a cable that have an overly flamboyant metal/plastic shroud around them, yet again just for the looks of the cable. For all 3 of the premiums listed above, people pay up to and sometimes more than $50, just for a cable.